#About 

My name is Paige Bailey. I live in Arkansas and have two majestic Clydesdale mares at home. My grandpa has owned draft horses, such as Clydesdales, for twenty-five years. We use them to cut/bale hay, grade roads, and as transportation around the farm. The Clydesdale originated in Scotland, near the Clyde River, during the late 18th century. Farmers needed a horse that could pull heavy farm equipment. These horses usually stand between 16-18 hands tall and weigh 1,600-2,200 pounds. They are easily identified by their large size, heavy feathering on hooves, dark coloring, and often a blaze face. Later, tractors began to replace draft horses and their numbers dropped drastically. They nearly became extinct and their role in World War I didn’t help their numbers. Today, Clydesdales are now considered an at risk breed. Their miraculous increase in numbers could be attributed to Budweiser. In 1993 they paraded a hitch of Clydesdales through St. Louis to celebrate the end of the prohibition. As time goes on, this breed is becoming more versatile. They can be found in a number of shows, competition pulls, farms, parades, and most recently competing in dressage.These born athletes tend to have a clean bill of health, but on occasions they run into problems. Equine Chiropractics is an up-and-coming form of treatment in the horse industry. Not too many people know about the service. There are a few signs to look for in determining if your horse would benefit from a visit. One major problem with this breed is dirty feathers, that leads to CPL and hoof problems. Another aspect of keeping your horse healthy is diet. Each horse has slightly different nutritional needs depending on age and amount of work, but in general, these giants require a lot of feed! There are a few components to be aware of when creating a balanced diet: protein, fat, minerals, and vitamins. This blog is for all those Clydesdale owners out there. We will explore a few tips and trick to keep your Clydesdale in tip-top shape, so they can preform to the best of their ability.

Photo Provided By: https://www.pinterest.com/pin/475481673132536913/
