#How to groom feathering

Keeping these long white feathers, a defining feature, clean and attractive can be quite a challenge. The first step is to thoroughly brush their feathers every day. Sand, mud, thorns, dirt, rocks, and other debris can get caught in the hair; this can be uncomfortable for your horse and cause sores. The next step is to wash their feathers on a regular basis. Wash the leg in a gentle whitening shampoo, since the hair tends to turn a yellowish color. It is imperative to make sure their feet have a chance to dry, because the hair traps moisture which could lead to health problems. During the warmer months I would suggest washing them about once every two weeks. Avoid washing the legs too often, since that can cause dry skin and damage the feathers.  By paying attention to the pasture and stall conditions the grooming process can be made simpler. A wet muddy stall can cause a big mess. Try to house the horse in clean dry environments to avoid tangles and minimize the amount of debris. If you are unable or unwilling to properly maintain the feathering it would be beneficial shave them off. Your horse’s health is the first priority.

#CPL

Clydesdales are prone to many skin diseases such as chronic progressive lymphedema, which is associated with unsanitary living conditions.  Chronic progressive lymphedema, also known as CPL, is characterized by fibrosis, progressive swelling, nodules, and lesions. The exact cause of CPL is still under speculation, but as of now scientists believe it is due to unclean living conditions and a genetic predisposition. Therefore, it is imperative to groom your Clydesdale’s feathers. Daily hoof care gives an owner the opportunity to catch the signs of CPL in its early stages. It is easier for your vet to treat CPL in the early stages.

#Thrush

Thrush is a bacterial infection. This fusobacterium is an anaerobic species that occurs naturally and thrives in moist muddy conditions. If your horse has thrush the frog will be a black color, have a foul odor, and be tender to the touch. In extreme cases deep pockets are found by the heel bulbs. Most draft horse owners will experience thrush at least once. Thrush management is important. Keeping the feet trimmed, balanced, and clean is a good way to prevent it. Feather coloration can be an indicator of when it is time to clean the hooves. If the feathers are nasty, the hooves probably are too. Thrush can be easily treated if caught early, just like CPL. While preforming the daily feather grooming it would be a good idea to check for signs of thrush.

! [Trush] (https://github.com/paigebailey21/01-My-Blog/blob/master/thrush.pdf)
