# Equine Chiropractics

## Signs Your Clydesdale Needs a Visit

In the picture above Dr. Sara is adjusting one of the budweiser clydesdales (Scooby). Just like humans atheletes, working animals can injure themselves and require an adjustment. Chiropractic care is a valuable treatment option for any performance horse, including Clydedales. They were specifically bred to pull heavy equipment, while remaining balanced and graceful. There are many things that can injure or cause discomfort like: arthritis, working long hours on uneven ground, misplacing a step, repetative stress on a muscle, bad conformation, pulling back while tied, twisting thier body while pulling, etc.  Signs that indicate your horse probably needs a visit from a chiropractor include: reluctance to accept harness/saddle, head tossing, unable to pick up correct lead, intermittent lameness, and abnormal sensitivites. A regular veterinarian can help these problems with medication, but why expose your animal to these things if it isn’t necessary.

## Technique

The very first thing that chiropractors do is examine the horse and identify the side where the pain is located, if the pain is high or low, what is the correct line of drive, and the best way to take the tension away. Adjusting a Clydesdale is not as physically difficult as it would seem. The whole trick is to use leverage and speed. You will notice that almost all of the chiropractors keep a step ladder with them, standing on the step gives them the needed leverage. That is why small women like Dr. Sara and Dr. Julie can adjust these gentle giants. Chiropractors using large amount of force (jumping on or using all bodyweight) should trigger red flags.

## Tools
 All equine chiropractors have a stool of some sort on hand. This allows them to get the leverage need to adjust a horse’s spine. Another tool that some chiropractors use is the C.A.T. (Chiropractic Adjusting Tool). It is a stainless steel spring loaded adjusting tool that can deliver a few ounces up to a couple pounds of pressure. The competitor tool is a chiropractic mallet, it has a short handle with a soft rubber head. The mallet is usually more effective on draft breeds. Another tool used in the equine industry is the thumper. The thumper massages the muscles and can compensate for a lack of exercise in a horse that is forced to remain inactive. This tool can also improve circulation, reduce inflammation/swelling in joints, prevents buildup of fatigue, and therefore alleviating pain. 
 
## Local Equine Chiropractors
There are eight animal chiropractors in the state of Arkansas. The office that specializes in Equine services are located on N. Sunshine road in Fayetteville, rightly name Northwest Equine Services. The attending vet is Dr. Anthony Paul Turchi. He has been in the business for twenty-five years and they are open Monday- Saturday 8:00am- 5:00pm. Another office with extremely high ratings is JB Animal Chiropractics. Jordana Beutelschies is the backbone of the office. She is located in Van Buren, where she was born and raised. Dr. Jordana works on all animals any sizes and can be found in the clinic Monday- Friday 6:00am- 8:00pm.
