## Budweiser Hitch
What an organism consumes on a daily basis greatly effects the health of that organism. A well balanced diet can greatly improve the performance of your Clydesdale. Just to give you an idea of how much these gentle giants can consumer, Budweiser feeds their hitch horses about sixty pounds of hay, twenty to twenty-five quarts of grain, and thirty gallons of water each day! Horses generally need to eat about two percent of their body weight in feed each day.  The Budweiser hitch works pretty hard throughout the weeks, which means they need more feed, than a horse that does light work, to maintain a the body score. The scale for body scores og 5-6. Essentially, the spine and ribs should not be seen, but can be felt. The neck, shoulders, and withers should be smooth; while the tail head is slightly spongy.

## Feeding a Weanling
From the time a colt/filly is weaned until they are one-year-old, it needs to be on one of the highest nutritional plans of its life. Weanlings will consume about three percent of their weight in dry matter every day. It should be fed all the shelled corn and/or oats it can consume. This grain diet should be supplemented with plenty of green alfalfa or bright tame hay. At this point of their life prairie hay should excluded from the diet, it is a worthless ration while the colt/filly is growing. Growing colts/fillies need energy to support their development. Weanling that consume too much energy will grow fast and potentially have structural problems. Yet, a weanling that consumes too little energy can experience stunted growth. Large weanlings should be fed between 60- 69 mj/kg a day. We usually put our colts/fillies on good pasture with little grain, during their second summer. Experts suggest growth is set by the third summer and they can be easily kept on good roughage from this point on; occasionally supplementing with grain.

## Moderate Work
Draft horses do not need to be on a high carbohydrate feed, because they are prone to certain metabolic aliments. A feed with low NSC, or small amounts of starches and sugars, will be sufficient. High forage rations are imperative, because large horses need 70- 81 mj/kg of energy a day to maintain a healthy body score. A horse also needs access to plenty of minerals and salt. I have found that Triple Crown feed is the best feed, for our mares.


## Lactating Mares
A lactating mare's nutritional requirements are almost double that of other mares. Their highest nutrient requirement is during the first three months of lactation. If the mare has an insufficient protein intake, she will sacrifice her stored nutrients to produce milk. Therefore the mare needs around 85 grams of lysine a day, since it is usually the limiting amino acid.  It is always a good idea to feed the mare at least 2.5 pounds of crude protein and a vitamin supplements once a day. Vets recommend BioMare Cubes from Pride's Easifeed and Impact Mare and Foal Feed from Purina. 

## Senior Horses
You know it is time to change up your old horses diet when they begin to lose body weight and drop below a body score of 5. The priority for feeding an older horse is digestibility, typically as a horse ages its body becomes less efficient and this can be exacerbated by poor feed choices. It is important supplement vitamins and minerals, while providing easily digestible fiber sources. Avoid feeding old course hay, because it takes long time to chew and has very little nutritional value. Just be careful, too much sugar and starch, from high quality legumes, can lead to Cushing's disease (insulin resistance problem). The Equine Senior feed from Purina, is one of the most common feeds used. It can either completely replace forages, for horses with bad teeth, or act as a supplement. Some older horses need a drastic change in their diet, while other are perfectly fine with their regular diet.


Picture Provided By: http://www.ariannanotech.com/activities/feed-ingredients
